# Cuts

CPLEX can generate both **global cuts** and **local cuts**. A global cut is a cut that is valid for all nodes of the branch-and-bound tree, even if that global cut was found during the analysis of a particular node. In contrast, a local cut is a cut that is valid only for a specific node and for all of its descendant nodes.

These cuts are used when CPLEX solves a MILP model. 

## Clique cuts

A **clique** is a relationship among a group of binary variables such that at most one variable in the group can be positive in any integer feasible solution.

## Cover cuts

If a constraint takes the form of a *knapsack constraint* (that is, a sum of binary variables with nonnegative coefficients less than or equal to a nonnegative righthand side), then there is a minimal cover associated with the constraint. A *minimal cover* is a subset of the variables of the inequality such that if all the subset variables were set to one, the knapsack constraint would be violated, but if any one subset variable were excluded, the constraint would be satisfied. 

knapsack constraint: $\{x \in \{0,1\}^n: \sum_{i \in N} a_ix_i \leq b \}$

cover: $C$ is a cover, if  $\sum_{i \in C} a_i > b$

minimal cover: $C$ is a minimal cover,  if $C$ is a cover yet $C\setminus\{j\}$ $(\forall j \in C)$ is not a cover 

minimal cover cut: $\sum_{i \in C} x_i \leq |C| - 1$, or $1 \leq \sum_{i \in C} (1 - x_i)$

## Disjunctive cuts

A MIP problem can be divided into two subproblems with disjunctive feasible regions of their LP relaxations by branching on an integer variable.

## Flow cover cuts

*Flow covers* are generated from constraints that contain continuous variables, where the continuous variables have variable upper bounds that are zero or positive depending on the setting of associated binary variables. The idea of a flow cover comes from considering the constraint containing the continuous variables as defining a single node in a network where the continuous variables are in-flows and out-flows. The flows will be on or off depending on the settings of the associated binary variables for the variable upper bounds. The flows and the demand at the single node imply a knapsack constraint. 

$P_{\leq} = \{\sum_{ i \in N} x_i \leq d, 0 \leq x_i \leq m_iy_i, y_i \in \{0,1\}\}$ 

## Flow path cuts

*Flow path cuts* are generated by considering a set of constraints containing the continuous variables that define a path structure in a network, where the constraints are nodes and the continuous variables are in-flows and out-flows. The flows will be on or off depending on the settings of the associated binary variables.

## Gomory cuts

*Gomory cuts* are generated by applying integer **rounding** on a pivot row in the optimal LP tableau for a (basic) integer variable with a fractional solution value.

Gomory cut: if $\sum_{i \in N} A_ix_i \leq b$, $u \geq 0$, then $\sum_{i \in N} \lfloor uA_i \rfloor x_i \leq \lfloor ub \rfloor$

##  GUB cover cuts

A *GUB constraint* for a set of binary variables is a sum of variables less than or equal to one. If the variables in a GUB constraint are also members of a knapsack constraint, then the minimal cover can be selected with the additional consideration that at most one of the members of the GUB constraint can be one in a solution. This additional restriction makes the *GUB cover cuts* stronger (that is, more restrictive) than ordinary cover cuts.

## Lift and project cuts

A MIP problem can be divided into two subproblems by branching on an integer variable or on any combination of integer variables of the MIP.  Those two subproblems suggest two disjoint LP relaxations. A *lift-and-project cut* is a linear inequality satisfied by the two LP relaxations defined by branching on a given integer variable or combination of integer variables. 

## MIR cuts

*MIR (mixed integer rounding) cuts* are generated by applying integer **rounding** on the coefficients of integer variables and the righthand side of a constraint.

## Multi-commodity flow cuts

The structure that is addressed by this separator is called a *multi-commodity flow* network with *arc capacities*. When such a structure is present, CPLEX generates cuts that state that the capacities installed on arcs pointing into a component of the network must be at least as large as the total flow demand of the component that can **not** be satisfied by flow sources within the component.

## Zero-half cuts

*Zero-half cuts* are based on the observation that when the left-hand side of an inequality consists of integral variables and integral coefficients, then the righthand side can be rounded down to produce a zero-half cut.

zero-half cut: if $ x1 + x2 + 2x3 + 2x4 + x5 <= 6.5 $, then $ x1 + x2 + 2x3 + 2x4 + x5 <= 6 $

















